Update "How to Get Your Map Ranked" (#2748)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Guides/How_To_Get_Your_Map_Ranked/en.md

# How to Get Your Map Ranked

*See also: [Ranking Criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria)*

Having trouble getting your [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmaps) ranked? You've come to the right place.

## Step 1: Modding

> ***Precursor: [Getting Your Map Modded](/wiki/Modding_Guides/Getting_Your_Map_Modded)***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Precursor: [Getting Your Map Modded](/wiki/Guides/Getting_Your_Map_Modded)***
```

## Step 2: Getting your beatmap nominated

Once your map has a decent amount of mods and approval, and you think it's ready to be ranked, it's time to get a [Beatmap Nominator](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nomination_Group). Check the team member's signature or userpage to see if they have a modding policy. If they're open to requests, ask them politely in game if they wouldn't mind taking a look at your map. Lots of Beatmap Nominators are extremely busy. There are an awful lot of pending maps to get through, so don't be too disheartened if you are turned down. Having lots of mods and approval on your map will help encourage Beatmap Nominators to look at your map.

## Step 3: Nominations

> Just because your map got nominated doesn't mean you can sit back and relax! Don't ignore mods by normal users on your map. Although only a Beatmap Nominator or Quality Assurance Team member can rank your map, anyone can improve it. A more thoroughly modded map means an easier job for the Beatmap Nominator who looks at it. Once you have applied a mod on your nomination, the Beatmap Nominator who originally gave the nommination will be happy to come back and reinstate the nomination. Keep in mind that you'll also have an easier time getting your nomination noticed by Beatmap Nominators if it's high priority. Having people build your hype train to push it up the priority list should make the wait for getting ranked shorter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just because your beatmap got nominated does not mean you can sit back and relax! Do not ignore mods from normal users on your beatmap. Although only a Beatmap Nominator member can rank your map, anyone can improve it. A more thoroughly modded beatmap means an easier job for the Beatmap Nominator who looks at it. Once you have applied a mod on your nomination, the Beatmap Nominator who originally gave the nomination will be happy to come back and reinstate the nomination. Keep in mind that you will also have an easier time getting your nomination noticed by Beatmap Nominators if it is high priority. Having people build your hype train to push it up the priority list should make the wait for getting ranked shorter.
```

Reviewer: Need to confirm: Can NAT rank beatmaps?
The suggestion above omits `or Quality Assurance Team`

> Just because your beatmap got nominated does not mean you can sit back and relax! Do not ignore mods from normal users on your beatmap. Although only a Beatmap Nominator member can rank your map, anyone can improve it. A more thoroughly modded beatmap means an easier job for the Beatmap Nominator who looks at it. Once you have applied a mod on your nomination, the Beatmap Nominator who originally gave the nomination will be happy to come back and reinstate the nomination. Keep in mind that you will also have an easier time getting your nomination noticed by Beatmap Nominators if it is high priority. Having people build your hype train to push it up the priority list should make the wait for getting ranked shorter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just because your beatmap got nominated does not mean you can sit back and relax! Do not ignore mods from normal users on your beatmap. Although only a Beatmap Nominator or Nomination Assessment Team member can rank your map, anyone can improve it. A more thoroughly modded beatmap means an easier job for the Beatmap Nominator who looks at it. Once you have applied a mod on your nomination, the Beatmap Nominator who originally gave the nomination will be happy to come back and reinstate the nomination. Keep in mind that you will also have an easier time getting your nomination noticed by Beatmap Nominators if it is high priority. Having people build your hype train to push it up the priority list should make the wait for getting ranked shorter.
```

It looks like the NAT can act like a BN in the modding and ranking process.
https://osu.ppy.sh/help/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team

*See also: [Ranking Criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria)*

Having trouble getting your [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmaps) ranked? You've come to the right place.

## Step 1: Modding

***Precursor: [Getting Your Map Modded](/wiki/Modding_Guides/Getting_Your_Map_Modded)***

The first and most important step towards getting your map ranked is to get people looking at it. People willing to [mod](/wiki/Modding) your map can be found in the #modreqs channel of chat, the [modding forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/60), or by asking them directly after checking their signature for modding policies. Remember that all mods are useful; any perspective on your map can be used to make it a better one. Consider every suggestion a modder makes, and if you turn any down, post a detailed response in the map thread making it clear why. It makes them a better modder and makes you think about how your map can improve! Also, if you found the mod particularly useful, be sure to give the post an upvote.

If a modder likes your map, they might give it hype. Hype allows your mod to get noticed more by Beatmap Nominators. Your map's hype train is important when it comes to moving on to the next step.

> ## Step 2: Calling a Beatmap Nominator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Getting your beatmap nominated
```
?

> Once your map has been pending for a while, has 5 people on your hype train, and you think it's perfect and ready to be ranked, it's time to get a [Beatmap Nominator](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nomination_Group). Make sure you check the team member's signature or userpage to see whether they have a modding policy; if they're open to requests or there's nothing there, ask them politely in game if they wouldn't mind taking a look at your map. Lots of BN are extremely busy — there are an awful lot of pending maps to get through, so don't be too disheartened if you are turned down. Having plenty of mods and hype on your map will help encourage Beatmap Nominators to look at your map, so if you're having difficulties getting a Beatmap Nominator to look at your map, remember that your hype train and mods will help you out.

Reviewer 2: > Once your map has been pending for a while

this should be mentioning instead that you want a decent amount of mods or approval before contacting nominators, as the general idea here is "don't waste nominators' time"

Author: Fixed.

> ## Step 3: Bubbles

Reviewer 2: seems to be more about what to do after nominations, not about nominations directly

> Just because your map is bubbled doesn't mean your work is done! Don't ignore mods by normal users on your bubbled map. Although only a Beatmap Nominator or Quality Assurance Team member can rank your map, anyone can help improve it. A more thoroughly modded map means an easier job for the BNG who looks at it. Once you have applied a mod on your bubble, the Beatmap Nominator who originally gave the bubble will always be happy to come back and reinstate it. Keep in mind that you'll also have an easier time getting your bubble noticed by BNG members if it's high priority and on the first page of pending. Having people build your hype train to push it up the list should make the wait for ranking shorter.

Reviewer 2: some outdated terminology
- bubble => nomination
- QAT => NAT
- BNG => BN or nominator

the note about being on the first page of pending probably doesn't apply enough to mention here

Author: Fixed with new commits.

*See also: [Ranking Criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria)*

> Having trouble getting your [beatmap](/wiki/Glossary) ranked? You've come to the right place.

Reviewer 3: change to /wiki/Beatmaps ?

Reviewer 4: Changed.

## Step 1: Modding

***Precursor: [Getting Your Map Modded](/wiki/Modding_Guides/Getting_Your_Map_Modded)***

> 

Reviewer 3: > be sure to give the post a [kudosu](/wiki/Glossary).
I would say to change this to  "be sure to upvote the post!"

Reviewer 4: Changed it to say ‘give the post an upvote’

The first and most important step towards getting your map ranked is to get people looking at it - people willing to [mod](/wiki/Modding) your map can be found in \#modreqs, the [modding queues forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/60) or by asking them directly after checking their signature for modding policies. Remember that all mods are useful - any perspective on your map can be used to make it a better one. Consider every suggestion a modder makes, and if you turn any down, post a detailed response in the map thread making it clear why. It makes them a better modder and makes you think about how your map can improve! Also, if you found the mod particularly useful, be sure to give the post a [kudosu](/wiki/Glossary).

> Your map's star priority is important when it comes to moving on to the next step. If a modder particularly likes your map they might give it a kudosu star - the more you work to make your map better, the more likely it will be. You can also gain stars by modding other people's maps and spending the kudosu stars on your own mapset. If you don't think you're very good at modding, practice makes perfect! Small suggestions can really help another mapper out, so don't be afraid to give modding a go.

Reviewer 3: The term Kudosu is only from people upvoting your initial thread on a modding page, the points can not be used at all.

Reviewer 3: Also, this entire paragraph is made redundant due to the moddingv2 system

Reviewer 4: Rewrote the entire paragraph to convert to moddingV2

## Step 2: Calling a BN

> Once your map has been pending a while, has a relatively high star priority, and you think it's perfect and ready to be ranked, it could be time to call up a [Beatmap Nominator](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nomination_Group). Make sure you check the team member in question's signature or userpage to see whether they have a modding policy; if they're open to requests or there's nothing there, ask them politely in game if they wouldn't mind taking a look at your map. Lots of BN are extremely busy — there are an awful lot of pending maps to get through, so don't be too disheartened if you are turned down. Having plenty of mods and kudos stars on your map will help encourage BN to look at your map, so if you're having difficulties throwing a few more kudos stars your map's way might improve your chances. Once a BN has modded your map and you've made the fixes necessary, call them back to take another look and see whether it is worthy of a bubble.

Reviewer 3: There is no such thing as a high star priority, the hype system is the alternate, where a mininum of 5 is required before a bubble is created

Reviewer 4: I edited this segment. Feel free to re-review it.

The first and most important step towards getting your map ranked is to get people looking at it; people willing to [mod](/wiki/Modding) your map can be found in the #modreqs channel, the [modding queues forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/60) or by asking them directly after checking their signature for modding policies. Remember that all mods are useful - any perspective on your map can be used to make it a better one. Consider every suggestion a modder makes, and if you turn any down, post a detailed response in the map thread making it clear why. It makes them a better modder and makes you think about how your map can improve! Also, if you found the mod particularly useful, be sure to give the post a [kudosu star](/wiki/Gl ossary).

> Your map's hype train is important when it comes to moving on to the next step. If a modder likes your map, they might give it hype. Hype allows your mod to get noticed more by Beatmap Nominators.

Reviewer 3: Calling the function as "hype train" would sound like it's only for popular maps. Infact, anyone can spend one hype point towards the map (They have 10 at a time, one per map and regenerates one per hour)

Author: This was fixed

## Step 2: Calling a Beatmap Nominator

> Once your map has been pending for a while, has a relatively high hype train, and you think it's perfect and ready to be ranked, it's time to get a [Beatmap Nominator](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nomination_Group). Make sure you check the team member's signature or userpage to see whether they have a modding policy; if they're open to requests or there's nothing there, ask them politely in game if they wouldn't mind taking a look at your map. Lots of BN are extremely busy — there are an awful lot of pending maps to get through, so don't be too disheartened if you are turned down. Having plenty of mods and kudos stars on your map will help encourage BN to look at your map, so if you're having difficulties throwing a few more kudos stars your map's way might improve your chances. Once a BN has modded your map and you've made the fixes necessary, call them back to take another look and see whether it is worthy of a bubble.

Reviewer 3: It only needs 5 hype before it can get nominated.

Author: Fixed

## Step 3: Bubbles

> Just because your map is bubbled doesn't mean your work is done! Don't ignore mods by normal users on your bubbled map. Although only a Beatmap Nominator or Quality Assurance Team member can rank your map, anyone can help improve it, and a better, more thoroughly modded map means an easier job for the BNG who eventually looks at it. Once you have applied a mod on your bubble the Beatmap Nominator who originally gave the bubble will almost always be happy to come back and reinstate it. Keep in mind that you'll also have an easier time getting your bubble noticed by BNG members if it's high priority and on the first page of pending. Having people build your hype train to push it up the list should make the wait for ranking shorter.

Reviewer 3: You know BN's can still "pop" a bubble (which it's called a veto, if they don't like the map at all). These normally have drama attached along side to it and can occur huge threads as to the veto/bubble. Unless the bubble is a simple metadata problem/simple hitobject problem, then you would expect to give good evidence as to if you should fix the suggestions to the BN's veto/bubble or not.

Reviewer 2: nomination resets aren't the same thing as vetos. the latter doesn't need to be mentioned in this article

Reviewer 3: however, a veto is when someone Pops a map for the reason of when the BN in question is not liking that it has been bubbled. This could be stated in some little sentence linking to the glossary instead.

Reviewer 3: Nevermind, this paragraph talks about nomination resets. Disregard
